#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{amsmath}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

A Simple Guide to Latex/Lyx
\layout Author

stat@rice helpdesk
\layout Section*

Preparation
\layout Standard

Run the following commands in a *nix shell (do not enter prompt > ):
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
> wget http://www.stat.rice.edu/~helpdesk/howto/lyxdemo.tar.gz
\newline 
> tar zxf lyxdemo.tar.gz
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
wget 
\family default 
is a useful command to grab something from the web.
 Using appropriate command options, it can download the whole web site (or
 only files of certain types) recursively.
 See 
\family typewriter 
man wget
\family default 
 for details.
 
\family typewriter 
tar
\family default 
 command is used to uncompress and expand 
\family typewriter 
.tar.gz
\family default 
 file.
 If you are using a windows machine, you can use a browser to download the
 file.
 Something like winRAR has to be used to uncompress the file.
\layout Standard

The demo file 
\family typewriter 
lyxdemo.tar.gz
\family default 
 contains the following files:
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
demoarticle.tex
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
drawing.eps, demoarticle.ps, 
\family default 
a demo latex file with its output.
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
essential.tex
\family default 
, an excellent introduction to latex by 
\emph on 
Jon Warbrick.
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
latexintro.pdf
\family default 
, 
\emph on 
The Not So Short Introduction to 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
LaTeX2e 
\end_inset 


\emph default 
 by 
\emph on 
Tobias Oetiker Hubert Partl, Irene Hyna and Elisabeth Schlegl.
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
Makefile
\family default 
, a makefile to simplify the use of latex related commands
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
latexsymbol.ps
\family default 
, list of latex symbols
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
lyxguide.lyx
\family default 
, this file
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
personal.bind 
\family default 
and 
\family typewriter 
reference.lyx
\family default 
 , 
\family typewriter 
reference.ps
\family default 
, helpdesk lyx bind file with its reference 
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
demo.bib
\family default 
, a sample bibtex file
\layout Section*

Latex Basics
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
demoarticle.tex
\family default 
 is the latex source file.
 You are supposed to input it (in whatever way you like).
 
\family typewriter 
demoarticle.ps
\family default 
 is one of the several possible outputs.
 You need to 
\emph on 
compile 
\emph default 
the source code to obtain it.
 Print and read 
\family typewriter 
demoarticle.tex
\family default 
 and
\family typewriter 
 demoarticle.ps
\family default 
 side by side and try to guess how the latex commands correspond to the
 output.
 It is important for you to understand
\layout Enumerate

document class: the document class determines the overall layout of the
 document.
 Changing the document class will change 
\emph on 
a lot 
\emph default 
of your output layout.
\layout Enumerate

environments (
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
start{itemize}
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
end{itemize}
\family default 
 etc)
\layout Enumerate

difference between inline (
\family typewriter 
$$
\family default 
) and displayed (
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
[ 
\backslash 
]
\family default 
) formula.

\family typewriter 
 
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
_
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
^ 
\family default 
are for subscript and superscript.
 
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
sqrt, 
\backslash 
sin, 
\backslash 
alpha, 
\backslash 
beta
\family default 
 are math symbols or functions
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
label
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
ref
\family default 
.
 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
label 
\family default 
is used to name an equation, section etc so that we can refer to them by
\family typewriter 
 
\backslash 
ref.
\layout Enumerate

How tables and figures are included.
 
\layout Section*

Latex commands
\layout Standard

You should first prepare a 
\family typewriter 
.tex 
\family default 
file, say 
\family typewriter 
article.tex
\family default 
, then
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
latex article.tex
\family default 
, obtain 
\family typewriter 
article.dvi
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
xdvi artivle.dvi
\family default 
, view the dvi file
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
dvips article.dvi
\family default 
, translate dvi to postscript format
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
gv article.ps
\family default 
, view ps file
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
ps2pdf article.ps
\family default 
, translate ps to pdf format
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
acroread article.pdf
\family default 
, view pdf file (
\family typewriter 
xpdf
\family default 
 can also be used.)
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
pdflatex article.tex
\family default 
, obtain a pdf file directly from .tex file
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
latex2html article.tex
\family default 
, translate the article to html format.
\layout Standard

You can use a make file to simplify all these.
 (see sample make file 
\family typewriter 
Makefile
\family default 
).
 The commands will be simlified to 
\family typewriter 
make view
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
make pdf
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
make web
\family default 
 etc.
 Note that there are many options for these commands which makes 
\family typewriter 
make
\family default 
 especially useful.
\newline 

\layout Standard
\noindent 

\series bold 
Practice: 
\layout Enumerate

Try to understand every latex command.
 Use a editor, input the following formula: 
\begin_inset Formula $E\left(e^{i\xi X}\right)=\int e^{i\xi x}dF\left(x\right)$
\end_inset 

..
 
\newline 

\series bold 
Hint
\series default 
: integral 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
int
\family default 
, subscript
\family typewriter 
 _
\family default 
, superscript 
\family typewriter 
^
\family default 
, 
\begin_inset Formula $\xi$
\end_inset 

 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
xi
\family default 
, use 
\family typewriter 
{} 
\family default 
to group items, use 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
left( 
\backslash 
right)
\family default 
 for big parenthesis and 
\family typewriter 
()
\family default 
 for small parenthesis.
\layout Enumerate
\noindent 
Compile and view 
\family typewriter 
demoarticle.tex
\family default 
.
 
\layout Enumerate

Convert the dvi file to 
\family typewriter 
ps
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
pdf
\family default 
 format and view them with appropriate viewers.
\layout Enumerate
\noindent 
Modify 
\family typewriter 
makefile 
\family default 
so that you can use 
\family typewriter 
make view 
\family default 
etc to compile and view 
\family typewriter 
essential.tex
\family default 
.
 
\layout Enumerate
\noindent 
Read 
\family typewriter 
essential.ps
\family default 
 for a more detailed description of latex basics.
\layout Subsection*

Start Lyx and set the bind file
\layout Standard

Type
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
lyx 
\layout Standard

to start lyx.
 If this is the first time you run 
\family typewriter 
lyx
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
lyx
\family default 
 will try to detect the latex settings and generate a 
\family typewriter 
.lyx
\family default 
 directory under your home directory.
 This is where you put your personal settings.
 It is highly recommended that you use helpdesk bind file.
 It contains 
\emph on 
a lot of
\emph default 
 keyboard shortcuts for rapid input almost all important math symbols.
 To use helpdesk bind file, copy the provided bind file to 
\family typewriter 
~/.lyx/bind
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
cp ~/lyxdemo/personal.bind ~/.lyx/bind/
\layout Standard

To activate this bind file, you will need to set 
\family typewriter 
Edit -> Preference -> interface -> bind file -> Browse -> User bind -> personal.b
ind
\family default 
 and then restart lyx.
 Press 
\family typewriter 
C-g b
\family default 
 (press 
\family typewriter 
Control
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
g
\family default 
 keys, release both keys and then press
\family typewriter 
 b
\family default 
), if you can see 
\begin_inset Formula $\beta$
\end_inset 

, the bind file is loaded correctly.
 Before you get used to all the shortcuts, it is a good idea to keep a copy
 of shortcut reference with you.
 (
\family typewriter 
reference.ps
\family default 
)
\newline 

\layout Standard
\noindent 

\series bold 
Practice: 
\series default 
Start and reconfigure lyx.
 Load helpdesk bind file.
 Print 
\family typewriter 
reference.ps
\family default 
 and have a look at the key bindings.
 
\layout Section*

Your First Lyx Document
\layout Standard

Play with the menus for a while, guess what they mean.
 Then
\layout Enumerate

start a new lyx file.
\layout Enumerate

go to 
\family typewriter 
Layout -> Document.

\family default 
 Choose
\family typewriter 
 article (AMS)
\family default 
 as your document class since we will be using ams math package.
 Note that if you use the standard 
\family typewriter 
article
\family default 
 class and 
\family typewriter 
insert -> math -> case environment
\family default 
 or other AMS only environments, you will get compile errors.
 This is among the `
\emph on 
easiest ways to get compile errors of lyx
\emph default 
'.
 If this happens, you can either
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

change your document class to 
\family typewriter 
ams
\family default 
 ones or,
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
Layout -> Document -> Packages -> Use AMS Math
\family default 
, or
\layout Enumerate

put 
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
usepackage{amsmath}
\layout Standard

in the preamble.
 (
\family typewriter 
layout -> Document -> preamble.
\family default 
)
\end_deeper 
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

The leftmost drop list on the toolbar is the 
\emph on 
environment list 
\emph default 
(roughly the same as latex environments).
 Enter title, author, chapter, subchapter etc of the sample file and choose
 the right environment for them.
 Note that
\family typewriter 
 Chapter*
\family default 
 is the non-numbered version of 
\family typewriter 
Chapter
\family default 
 environment.
\layout Section*

View your document
\layout Standard

Save your file.
 Learn to 
\layout Enumerate

Use 
\family typewriter 
View -> DVI
\family default 
 to view dvi output, 
\family typewriter 
View -> PostScript
\family default 
 to view ps output.
 Lyx actually export the lyx file to latex and call 
\family typewriter 
latex, xdvi, postscript
\family default 
 etc to do these.
 If you are interested in the underlying latex source, 
\family typewriter 
File
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
-> Export -> Latex 
\family default 
and read the generated latex file.
\layout Enumerate

Modify your document and then 
\family typewriter 
View -> update -> DVI
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
View -> Update -> PostScript
\family default 
 (you will need to reload the ps file from gv) to see updated output.
\layout Enumerate

Learn shortcuts 
\family typewriter 
F9
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
F10
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
F11
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
F12.
\layout Standard
\noindent 

\series bold 
Practice: 
\series default 
Enter the first several paragraphs of the sample document.
\layout Standard
\noindent 

\series bold 
Hint:
\series default 
 
\layout Enumerate
\noindent 

\family typewriter 
F4
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
F5
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
F6
\family default 
 corresponds to normal, bold, emphasis fonts.
 (only for helpdesk bind file)
\layout Enumerate
\noindent 
Use 
\family typewriter 
C-M
\family default 
 to enter math mode.
 Use 
\family typewriter 
arrow
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
blank 
\family default 
keys to get out.
 
\layout Section*

Input Math Formula - basic inline formula
\layout Standard

There are three ways to enter math mode: (fast to slow) 
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
Ctrl-M
\family default 
 (
\family typewriter 
Ctrl-M 
\family default 
means press the 
\family typewriter 
Ctrl
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
M
\family default 
 keys at the same time.
 In 
\family typewriter 
reference.tex,
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
C
\family default 
 stands for 
\family typewriter 
Control
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
S
\family default 
 stands for 
\family typewriter 
shift
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
M
\family default 
 stands for 
\family typewriter 
meta 
\family default 
(right 
\family typewriter 
Alt
\family default 
 key for windows keyboard)), or
\layout Enumerate

click the 
\begin_inset Formula $\frac{a+b}{c}$
\end_inset 

 icon on the toolbar, or
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
insert -> math -> inline formula
\layout Standard

To enter math symbols, you can either (slow to fast)
\layout Enumerate

Use Math Panel (right click an existing formula or 
\family typewriter 
insert -> math -> math panel ...
\family default 
), or
\layout Enumerate

In math mode, enter 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 

\family default 
 plus symbol name, e.g.
 enter 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
alpha
\family default 
 for 
\begin_inset Formula $\alpha$
\end_inset 

, 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
propto
\family default 
 for 
\begin_inset Formula $\propto$
\end_inset 

.
 For symbol names, see
\family typewriter 
 latexsymbol.ps
\family default 
.
 or
\layout Enumerate

Use shortcuts (see shortcut reference).
 For example,
\family typewriter 
 C-g a 
\family default 
for 
\begin_inset Formula $\alpha$
\end_inset 

, 
\family typewriter 
C-g r 
\family default 
for 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset 

, 
\family typewriter 
C-s 1
\family default 
 for 
\begin_inset Formula $\rightarrow$
\end_inset 

,
\family typewriter 
 C-s i
\family default 
 for 
\begin_inset Formula $\infty$
\end_inset 

.
 Basically, 
\family typewriter 
C-g
\family default 
 means Greek character and 
\family typewriter 
C-s
\family default 
 means symbol.
\layout Standard

Character Accent:
\layout Enumerate

Use math panel or
\layout Enumerate

Use shortcuts 
\family typewriter 
C-_
\family default 
,
\family typewriter 
~
\family default 
,
\family typewriter 
^ 
\family default 
etc , e.g., 
\family typewriter 
C-^ C-g a 
\family default 
inputs 
\begin_inset Formula $\hat{\alpha}$
\end_inset 

.
 For wide accent (e.g.
 
\begin_inset Formula $\widehat{a+b}$
\end_inset 

) , use 
\family typewriter 
Meta-_
\family default 
,
\family typewriter 
~
\family default 
,
\family typewriter 
^
\family default 
 instead.
\layout Standard

Delimiters:
\layout Standard
\noindent 
The sizes of ( ) may be small for math equations.
 The following delimiters are paired (so they are easier to input) and can
 change their sizes according to their context.
\layout Enumerate

Use math panel or
\layout Enumerate

Use
\family typewriter 
 Ctrl + ( ) [ ] { } |
\family default 
 etc to input paired delimeters.
 Shortcuts for one side delimeters are also available.
\layout Standard

Other important shortcuts:
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
C-UpArrow 
\family default 
superscript, 
\family typewriter 
C-DownArrow
\family default 
 subscript, I prefer 
\family typewriter 
C-h/C-l
\family default 
 though.
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
C-/
\family default 
 fraction
\family typewriter 
, C-s b
\family default 
 binomial
\family typewriter 
, C-s r
\family default 
 root 
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
C-s s
\family default 
 stack 
\layout Standard
\align left 

\series bold 
Practice: 
\series default 
Input formula: 
\begin_inset Formula $\sqrt{n}\left(\frac{\bar{X}-\mu}{\sigma}\right)\stackrel{d}{\rightarrow}N\left(0,1\right)$
\end_inset 

.
 
\layout Standard
\align left 

\series bold 
Hint
\series default 
: 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
sqrt 
\family default 
or 
\family typewriter 
C-r
\family default 
 for 
\begin_inset Formula $\sqrt{}$
\end_inset 

, 
\family typewriter 
C-(
\family default 
 for 
\begin_inset Formula $\left(\right)$
\end_inset 

, 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
sigma or
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
C-s s
\family default 
 for 
\begin_inset Formula $\sigma$
\end_inset 

, 
\family typewriter 
C-_ X
\family default 
 for 
\begin_inset Formula $\bar{X}$
\end_inset 

, 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
mu
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
C-g m 
\family default 
for 
\begin_inset Formula $\mu$
\end_inset 

,
\family typewriter 
 C-s s
\family default 
 for stack,
\family typewriter 
 C-s 1
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
Alt-RightArrow
\family default 
 for 
\begin_inset Formula $\rightarrow$
\end_inset 

.
\layout Section*

Input Math Formula - displayed 
\layout Standard

All previous plus: 
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
C-d
\family default 
 for displayed formula.
 (helpdesk bindfile only)
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
C-d 
\family default 
in inline/display formula will toggle between them.
\layout Enumerate

If you prefer AMS align environments, 
\family typewriter 
insert -> math -> AMS align environment 
\family default 
etc
\layout Enumerate

In displayed formula, use 
\family typewriter 
C-enter
\family default 
 to enter 
\family typewriter 
equarray environment
\family default 
.
 It is important to know that the middle cells are used for alignment purpose
 so only characters like =, >, < etc are welcome.
 To add more lines, use
\family typewriter 
 C-Enter
\family default 
 at the end of a line.
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
Insert -> label
\family default 
 to name a formula, then use
\family typewriter 
 insert -> cross reference
\family default 
 to refer to it.
 Use
\family typewriter 
 C-n
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
C-N 
\family default 
to toggle numbering.
 
\layout Standard

Important Usuage hints:
\layout Enumerate

In math mode, use 
\family typewriter 
C-M
\family default 
 to enter text mode.
 (If you know latex, it is
\family typewriter 
 $ 
\backslash 
text{ } $
\family default 
.) Then, you 
\emph on 
can not 
\emph default 
use C-M again to enter math mode within the text mode.
 Use right-arrow to 
\emph on 
step out 
\emph default 
of the text mode.
 
\series bold 
\emph on 
You will get compile error if you input math symbols in text mode.
 
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
C-s c
\family default 
 for 2 cases, 
\family typewriter 
C-s C
\family default 
 for 3 cases.
 (need ams package and helpdesk bindfile)
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
C-s m
\family default 
 for 2 by 2 matrix, 
\family typewriter 
C-s M
\family default 
 for 3 by 3 matrix, 
\family typewriter 
C-s C-m a b
\family default 
 for 
\family typewriter 
a
\family default 
 by 
\family typewriter 
b
\family default 
 matrix.
 
\layout Enumerate

use 
\family typewriter 
Edit -> math 
\family default 
to add/delete row, column of a matrix or change alignment.
\layout Enumerate

Sometimes, you will need one side delimiter, use math panel or shortcuts.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Practice: 
\series default 
Input formula: 
\layout Section*


\begin_inset Formula \begin{eqnarray*}
x & = & \begin{cases}
\frac{1}{n} & \textrm{w.p. }\frac{1}{n}\\
n & \textrm{w.p. }1-\frac{1}{n}\end{cases}\\
y & = & x^{2}\end{eqnarray*}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Hint
\series default 
: '=' should be in the middle cell of the equarray.
 You can use either 
\family typewriter 
insert -> math -> case environment 
\family default 
or one side dilimiter 
\family typewriter 
{
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
(C-s {
\family default 
) and then a 2 by 2 matrix.
 Use 
\family typewriter 
C-M
\family default 
 to toggle between text/math mode ( for text w.p.) and 
\family typewriter 
edit -> math 
\family default 
to change alignment, if necessary.
 
\layout Section*

Figure and Table
\layout Standard

It is time to mention two ways of organizing tables and figures.
 The first one is fixed.
 The tables or figures will be put where you insert them.
 If there is not enough room in the current page, it will be put to the
 next page but the rest of the current page will be left blank.
 Floating tables and figures are designed to overcome this problem.
 They will be put automatically according to a complex machanism to achieve
 best layout.
\layout Standard

To insert fixed table/figure: 
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
insert -> tabular material insert -> Graphics
\layout Standard

To insert floating table/figure: 
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
insert -> floats -> table/figure, 
\layout Standard

then
\family typewriter 
 insert -> table/graphics 
\family default 
within the floating box.
\layout Standard

To set the floating preferences, right click the red 'float' box.
 Usually, you need to set size and rotate propertiies.
 
\layout Section*

Spell Checker
\layout Standard

In plain latex, it is rather difficult to use a spell checker.
 Now, you can use 
\family typewriter 
edit -> spellchecker.
\layout Section*

Nested Environment
\layout Standard

The concept of 'depth' of an environment is important.
 Two very import shortcuts to remember are 
\family typewriter 
C-Left/RightArrow, 
\family default 
or equivalently 
\family typewriter 
Layout -> Change environment depth.
 
\family default 
To make depth adjustment easier, 
\layout Enumerate

There are many differnt 'enter's.

\family typewriter 
 Alt-Enter
\family default 
 will keep environment type and depth.

\family typewriter 
 Ctrl-enter
\family default 
 will break line but do not break paragraph, enter will break paragraph
 and go to depth 1.
\layout Enumerate

standard is also an environment (different from plain latex) .
 For example, you want to insert a centered table within a enumerate environment
, start a paragraph, select as 
\family typewriter 
standard 
\family default 
environment, use
\family typewriter 
 C-RightArrow
\family default 
 to make it one depth higher than the 
\family typewriter 
enumerate 
\family default 
environment and then choose 
\family typewriter 
layout -> paragraph -> center
\family default 
.
\layout Enumerate

If you use environment change a lot, it is time to learn shortcuts 
\family typewriter 
C-p T 
\family default 
(title), 
\family typewriter 
C-p s
\family default 
 (standard), 
\family typewriter 
C-p 2, 3,4
\family default 
, (section, subsection etc).
\layout Section*

Advanced Topic: Latex code, ERT and preamble.
\layout Enumerate

If you know latex pretty well and know how to do something quicker in plain
 latex, do so.
 Click the red 
\begin_inset Formula $TeX$
\end_inset 

 botton on the toolbar, enter appropriate latex comand.
 The text will be in red so it is called Evil Red Text (ERT).
 E.g.
 you can use ERT 
\family typewriter 
$x^2$
\family default 
 to input 
\begin_inset Formula $x^{2}$
\end_inset 

.
 One popular ERT is 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
vspace{1in}
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

If you have a big trunk of plain latex code, you can include them directly
 in your lyx file through ERT.
 Anyway, if you have a full latex file, importing it into lyx would be better.
\layout Enumerate

If you need to set preamble (read 
\family typewriter 
latexinto.pdf
\family default 
 to see what preamble is), use 
\family typewriter 
Layout -> Preamble
\family default 
.
 Useful preambles include
\begin_deeper 
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
usepackage{amsmath}
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
numberwithin{thm}{section}
\end_deeper 
\layout Quote

the first one include amsmath package (in case that you do not use ams class.)
 The second one control how the equations will be numbered.
\layout Section*

Advanced Topic: Insert Source Code
\layout Standard

If you would like to include your source code into lyx, you can
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
insert -> float -> algorithm
\layout Enumerate

set caption 
\layout Enumerate

copy the source code from emacs etc
\layout Enumerate

select 
\family typewriter 
lyx Code
\family default 
 environment 
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
Edit -> paste extenal selection -> as lines.
\layout Section*

Advanced Topic: Citation and Bibliographics
\layout Standard

I would suggest the following way of dealing with bibliographic item.
 
\layout Enumerate

Keep your bibs in a separate bibtex file.
 (see 
\family typewriter 
sample.bib
\family default 
 file)
\layout Enumerate

use 
\family typewriter 
tkbibtex 
\family default 
to edit the bib files.
 Try to keep track of all articles you have read in this way.
 (Jabref may be easier to use under windows).
\layout Enumerate

In lyx, 
\family typewriter 
insert -> Lists & TOC -> Bibtex reference
\family default 
 at the end of the document.
 Enter the path to your bib file, do not change the style (default as 
\family typewriter 
plain
\family default 
) if you do not know other styles.
 If you do, 
\family typewriter 
plainnat, natbib (layout -> document -> bibliographics -> use natlib) 
\family default 
will be helpful.
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
Insert -> citation reference
\family default 
, use arrow in the dialog to insert citation.
\layout Standard

Lyx (actually latex) will take care of everything else for you.
 Note that you can use ERT 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
nocite{*} 
\family default 
to insert bib items into your document without actually cite them.
\newline 

\layout Standard
\align left 

\series bold 
Practice:
\series default 
 Using sample.bib, insert a citation into your lyx file.
\layout Section*

Advanced Topic: Import/Export latex file
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
File -> Export -> Latex
\family default 
 will export your lyx file to 
\family typewriter 
.tex 
\family default 
file.
 
\family typewriter 
File -> import -> Latex 
\family default 
can import most of the 'clean' latex files.
 However, because of the complexity of latex, lyx can not load very complicated
 latex files, especially when they use non-standard document style, lots
 of macros etc.
 It is advised that you use lyx from the beginning rather than import a
 half-done latex file.
 If lyx fails to import your tex file, try to hand-clean it before you import
 it to lyx.
 
\newline 

\layout Standard
\align left 

\series bold 
Practice:
\series default 
 Export your lyx file to latex and have a look at it.
 Then import it into lyx again.
\layout Section*

Advanced Topic: Key bindings
\layout Standard

Lyx uses a key-binding file to determine the key-bindings at start time.
 You can choose from Emacs, SWP, CUA style by specifying the appropriate
 file at:
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
Edit -> Preferences -> Look and Feel -> Interface -> Bind File
\layout Standard

You can add your own key bindings by 
\layout Enumerate

copying a system binding file to ~/.lyx/bind 
\layout Enumerate

Modify it.
 
\layout Enumerate

Set this bind file in preference dialog
\layout Standard

The syntax of bind file is pretty easy, here is a few example:
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
bind "C-f" "math-insert 
\backslash 
frac" 
\newline 

\backslash 
bind "F5" "font-bold"
\layout Standard

The first line binds
\family typewriter 
 Ctrl-f
\family default 
 to 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
frac
\family default 
 (fraction).
 The second one maps 
\family typewriter 
F5
\family default 
 to 
\family typewriter 
font-bold
\family default 
 as SWP does.
 For more examples, have a look at the system bind files at 
\family typewriter 
/usr/site/lyx/share/lyx/bind
\family default 
 or my personal bind file.
 
\newline 

\layout Standard
\align left 

\series bold 
Practice: 
\series default 
Open ~/.lyx/bind/personal.bind, insert a keybinding that bind C-s h to 
\backslash 
aleph (
\begin_inset Formula $\aleph$
\end_inset 

).
 Save personal.bind, restart lyx, try to insert 
\begin_inset Formula $\aleph$
\end_inset 

.
\layout Section*

Advanced Topic: Export to HTML
\layout Standard

You can use insert -> URL to insert a URL.
 However, if you export -> html (or view html), there will be no html style
 link.
 This is not lyx's fault since there is no standard way of dealing link
 in latex.
 I, however, figure out a patch to do this.
 
\layout Enumerate

Save your lyx file, say article.lyx
\layout Enumerate

/home/helpdesk/bin/lyx2tex article.lyx
\layout Enumerate

latex2html article.tex
\layout Standard

Basically, I modify the lyx file a little bit to let it create 'latex2html'
 style link so that latex2html can recognize and create real links.
 It would be convenient to use the provided make file.
\layout Section*

Advaced Topic: Pitfalls about lyx
\layout Standard

Lyx is not perfect.
 It has many problems that may irritate even experienced users, and you
 will sooner or later meet some.
 Fortunately, lyx is becoming better and better and its user mailing list
 is very friendly.
 (I am in that list, you can always send me questions and if I can not answer
 them, I will post them to the list.) Certain precautions should be made
\layout Enumerate

Compile (press F11) frequently, if any error occurs (latex compile error),
 you know you made the mistake in recently input texts.
\layout Enumerate

If the problem persists, export to latex and try to see what forbid latex
 from compiling.
 This is where latex knowledge becomes very useful.
 Anyway, if you can avoid the following two common problems, you can use
 lyx for a long time without having to face compile error:
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

use AMS package when you input AMS-specific environments like cases, align
 etc.
\layout Enumerate

do not enter math symbol in text mode.
 (Use right-arrow to step out of text mode instead of using nested math
 mode.)
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Latex output is in general beautiful.
 However, you will run into trouble if you want to do fancy things like
 putting a logo on every page etc.
 (It is doable but needs the right, if not lots of, latex code.) You can
 find a lot of such tricks from lyx webpage.
 
\layout Enumerate

You might need to use some other style (class) file.
 For example, you will need to write your thesis with some provided class
 file.
 It is possible to incorporate outside layout file into lyx but it would
 be simpler to export your lyx file to latex and modify it (especially when
 your advisor does not use lyx.)
\layout Section*

Advanced Topic: Windows version of lyx 
\layout Standard

Since lyx depends on various Unix tools and the X-windows system, you will
 have to provide all of them on your windows machine before lyx can be installed.
 That is to say, you will have windows version of latex (teTeX), of Unix
 (Cygwin), of X (X-win32 or Xfree86), of ghostview etc.
 Detailed instructions can be googled through 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

lyx windows
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 There is recently a native lyx port that may be easier to install.
\the_end
